---
layout: single
title: "2021-12-17"
permalink: /advice/2021-12-17
tags:
  - Advice
  - Interpersonal Relationships
  - Technology
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on December 17, 2021.

## Popular Party-Goer

> Dear Jay,
>
> I find myself in a quandary. I've been invited to two birthday
parties for two different friends on the same night. Both events
are dinners, and are scheduled at virtually the same time, so it
is impossible for me to attend both. How do I decide which to
attend? Can I manage this without letting the other friend down?
While these two people are not close friends themselves, they
follow each other on social media and will see my picture at whichever
event I choose to attend. I feel trapped between a rock and a hard
place; are there any good options here?
>
> -Popular Person

Dear Popular Person,

I guess this is a fortunate problem to have? I can say I've never
experienced this myself. However I do think you have several options
in this scenario. You can choose one party to attend and tell the other
friend what you are going to be doing, then the social media post about the
event will not surprise the friend whose party you skip. Alternatively, and
this might be the option I would choose, you could skip both events, avoiding
the awkward social media pictures and subsequent fallout, and also giving
yourself a quiet night in.

Sorry that this is all I've been able to come up with, maybe I wasn't the best
advice columnist to approach with this particular question. If this is
unsatisfactory, maybe try asking Amy or Jeeves.

All the best,

Jay
