---
layout: single
title: "2021-12-01"
permalink: /advice/2021-12-01
tags:
  - Advice
  - Aging
  - Personal Hygiene
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on December 1, 2021.

## Gandalf the Graying

> Dear Jay,
>
> I'm a fairly young guy and I've just noticed my first gray hair!
This is freaking me out! I'm losing my confidence and need some advice
on how to remain positive, confident, and feel good about myself as I
age.
>
> Thanks,
>
> Gandalf the Graying

Gandalf,

I totally understand, but don't stress (you'll gray even faster).
Aging isn't necessarily a negative thing, gray hairs may be seen by
some as a sign of experience. Maintain a positive attitude, it will keep
you young at heart and a pleasant person to be around. If these measures
do not work, you can always explore dying your hair. There are many
hair color products out there, I would just encourage you to test a
little bit of the product on your skin first to make sure you do not have
an allergic reaction.

Stay positive!

Jay

## Greasy Fingers

> Dear Jay,
>
> I have recently begun conducting maintenance on my bicycle. This has
been great except for all of the grease! How can I get this bloody stuff
off of my hands? Have any advice for me?
>
> -Greasy Fingers

Hello Greasy Fingers,

I understand your dilemma and have some suggestions. I am not an expert on
hand washing, however I believe the fact that the grease is oily makes it
difficult to wash off of your hands. One potential solution is to prevent
grease from ever getting on your hands in the first place. This is pretty
simple to achieve, just wear some gloves whenever you do maintenance on
your bike. If, however, you do end up with grease on your hands, there are
soap products specifically designed for this purpose. These soaps typically
have some sort of particulate matter or grid in them which helps get the
oily grease off of your hands. Alternatively, I believe if you wash
multiple times and use old hand towels to help remove the grease, the
towel replaces the grit in specialty soaps. Just remember that the grease
will end up on your hand towel, so it is important to use an old towel
if you're going to use this strategy.

Best of luck,

Jay
