---
layout: single
title: "2022-08-18"
permalink: /advice/2022-08-18
tags:
  - Advice
  - Aging
  - Happiness
  - Health
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on August 18, 2022.

## Wrong Side of the Bed

> Hey Jay,
>
> I had an unfortunate experience recently. I woke up one morning with a
> stiff neck, and it hurt a bit to turn my head to the left. This is unusual,
> but not entirely unprecedented, so I wasn't worried, and figured this
> feeling would go away by the end of the day. To my dismay, this was not the
> case. Instead, I suffered a sore neck for the next few days. This physical
> malady represented, for me, a clear and distressing sign of my own aging and
> mortality. It sounds ridiculous, but this experience threw me into a bit of
> a funk for a few days. I'm hoping you have some advice that I can use to
> help age more gracefully. Let me know!
>
> Thanks,
>
> Your Newest Middle-Aged Reader

Reader,

Well, this is a tough one to answer, as the solution to your negative thoughts
is a bit of a personal challenge you need to overcome. Each person deals with
their mortality and aging differently. One thing to keep in mind is that there
is really nothing you can do about aging. Time moves in one direction, and you
will get older, there's nothing you can do about that part of the equation.
You can, however, try to stay physically fit and limber, and maintain a
positive mindset. So I'd recommend getting regular exercise and stretching if
you aren't already doing that, and following a healthy diet. My favorite song
about the aging process is Baz Luhrmann's
"[Everybody's Free (To Wear Sunscreen)](https://youtu.be/sTJ7AzBIJoI)", the
spoken word adaptation of Mary Schmich's
[column](https://www.chicagotribune.com/columns/chi-schmich-sunscreen-column-column.html)
in the Chicago Tribune. So to quote Mary and Baz: "If I could offer you only
one tip for the future, sunscreen would be it."

Best,

Jay
