---
layout: single
title: "2022-10-08"
permalink: /advice/2022-10-08
tags:
  - Advice
  - Well-Being
  - Happiness
  - Environment
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on October 8, 2022.

## Screen-less Windows

> Hey Jay,
>
> I have recently bought a pair of external monitors I wanted to connect to
> my laptop. However once I plugged them in, I couldn't figure out how to
> get my Windows to show up on the external screens as well as my laptop. I'm
> hoping you have some advice to offer on how I might resolve my screen
> problem.
>
> Thanks,
>
> Wannabe-Techie

Techie,

I'm glad you decided to purchase some external monitors; they can really
improve the laptop experience. Your message is relatively sparse in terms of
details, but I can try to take some guesses as to what the problem(s) might be.
The first thing I wonder is whether or not your laptop can support two external
monitors. There is a chance the video card in your laptop (which is likely
integrated with another component) is not powerful enough to support two
external monitors and can only support one. So you might want to try connecting
just one external monitor first, before trying two. Once you are just trying
to connect one external screen, if you still have trouble, you should try
different cables if you have them. There are many different types of connectors
often used by monitors ranging from HDMI, DisplayPort, DVI, VGA, and newer ones
might even support USB-C. By trying different cables and ports, you will learn
whether the problem is with a cable or an individual port, or if it is more
serious and related to the laptop or monitor itself. Since you have two
monitors, you can try each one with a given cable to help rule out the chance
that the monitor itself has a problem. If you have a second laptop or other
computer around, you could also try using that, to help isolate the source
of the problem.

Good luck,

Jay