---
layout: single
title: "2022-03-20"
permalink: /advice/2022-03-20
tags:
  - Advice
  - Food
  - School
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on March 20, 2022.

## Freezer Burn

> Hey Jay,
>
> I opened up my freezer to a bunch of food with freezer burn on it. Do you know its still safe to eat? How can I prevent this from happening in the future? Sorry for such a basic question, but this is where I find myself today.
>
> Burnt

Burnt,

Hello. Freezer burn is less than ideal for sure, but at least you should feel
some relief when you learn that the food should still be safe to consume. My
understanding of freezer burn is that it is simply what happens when frozen
food begins to thaw, and moisture begins to escape the food and re-freezes on
its exterior. For this reason, freezer burn changes the texture of the food
(usually negatively), but does not indicate that the food has spoiled. However,
if you had a power outage and food totally thawed and re-froze, it is possible
things *did* spoil when you lost power. So just be careful / aware of how the
freezer burn came about. Typically, I've found my items in the freezer can end
up with some freezer burn after they've sat in the freezer for a long time,
in these cases I assume the opening and closing of the door over time caused
moisture to escape and re-freeze, or is introduced from outside to create the
freezer burn.

Stay frosty,

Jay


## Gaps Between Classes

> Hey Jay,
>
> I am in my first year of college and am having trouble making the most of my time in between classes. I have some gaps between different lectures of varying lengths, sometimes I have an hour, sometimes I have three, but I struggle with what I should be doing during these free periods. In high school I never had this type of free time in the middle of the day besides my lunch period. What do you recommend I do? Thanks!
>
> Gap for Kids

Gap,

Fair question, it is an interesting situation you may find yourself in for the
rest of your collegiate career. There are a number of different things people
do with their mid-day gaps, some of which I am sure you may be familiar with,
but others that may be novel to you. Some ideas:
- Work on homework
- Prepare for your next class by reviewing or reading ahead
- If you live close by, go back home and eat or do some housework
- Swing by the gym and get a workout in
- Find an on-campus job and schedule shifts during your longer breaks
- Find a position as a lab assistant - some tasks like washing dishes in a wet lab don't require close supervision so you can likely do that when you have free time
- Join a club and become involved in it's running, some may have offices and administrative tasks that need to be taken care of during the day
- Visit the library and read a book
- Eat some lunch or a snack
- If the weather is good, find a nice spot to take a nap outside
- If the weather is bad, there may be designated nap spots on campus (I don't know if this is actually true)

So take your pick, some of those suggestions are certainly better than others.
But different things work for different people, so just try to figure out what
works best for you. Best of luck!

-Jay
