---
layout: single
title: "2022-02-04"
permalink: /advice/2022-02-04
tags:
  - Advice
  - Motivation
  - Health
  - Well-Being
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on February 4, 2022.

## Finding the Will to Exercise

> Hey Jay,
>
> While it is winter, I can't help but think ahead to the summer. When I do so,
I realize I'm not in the physical shape I wish I was in. While I don't know you
personally, I get the impression you are reasonably fit and stay in shape.
So that being said, I'm hoping you can give me some advice on how to motivate
myself to exercise. If it helps any, I am hoping to run more, as I would like
to spend more time outside. Thanks!
>
> Bugs Runny

Bugs Runny,

Well one option is to imagine someone is hunting you down like a rabbit! But
maybe I can try to provide some more realistic advice as well. Personally, I
have found that identifying an end goal or objective for an activity can help
me find the motivation needed to do the work.

For example, if you want to run a marathon, it is helpful to find a training
plan, and stick to it, to increase your chances of success. You've vaguely
mentioned wanting to be in some sort of physical shape, but I would encourage
you to more specifically define the end goal. Once you've done that, you can
break up the overall objective into smaller milestones, and chart yourself a
realistic path to achieving each one of them. If you are aiming for a target
weight on the scale, maybe define your ultimate goal, and then set intermediate
targets. This gives you the opportunity to track your progress, and adjust the
overall timeline if you find you are unable to drop the pounds at the rate
you wanted to. This is normal! If you cannot hit the targets you set, it is not
indicative of failure to act or improve yourself, it may just mean you've set
unrealistic or unachievable timelines for your goals. So I wouldn't get
discouraged if you miss a self-identified milestone, if it happens multiple
times, I would just step back and maybe re-adjust your overall timeline to
match what is physically feasible for you.

At the daily or weekly level, you need to think about how your actions and
decisions will impact your future self. If we think about being in shape by
the summertime, that may sound like it is far away as it is only February now.
But, how long does it take to get into shape? If you aren't actively trying to
improve your physical fitness, maybe you'll even slide further from being in
shape between now and the summer. The decision to go on a run today is a small
but incremental step in the direction you want to head. So just remember to
keep the overall time horizons in perspective, and think about future you.

-Jay


## Re: Oat Milk

> Hi Jay,
>
> I saw your advice last week regarding oat milk. I agree that Oatly is pretty
good. As someone who has been on a lactose-free diet for a long time, I just
wanted to also point your reader to soy milk as a potential alternative.
In particular, I have gotten used to the Silk brand of soy milk and would
recommend that to your reader. Silk has been making alternative milks for a
while, and I would suggest trying their almond and oat milks as well as the
soy.

Thanks for the tip! Hopefully last week's advice seeker sees this.
