---
layout: single
title: "2022-03-11"
permalink: /advice/2022-03-11
tags:
  - Advice
  - Manners
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on March 11, 2022.

## Gracefully Taking A Compliment

> Hey Jay,
>
> I was wondering if you could give me some advice on how to gracefully accept
> compliments. I am lucky enough to be surrounded by such kind people, but I
> feel so awkward when someone gives me a compliment. I tend to freeze up a bit
> and say something like "thank you, you're too kind". But this feels so
> strange, so any suggestions you have on how I could improve the way I receive
> compliments would be much appreciated. To clarify, I am talking about
> work-related compliments along the lines of "great work on X" or "this
> report was really useful," as opposed to those related to my style or taste
> in movies (both of which I have no problems accepting compliments about).
>
> Grace

Grace,

This is such a nice situation to be in. Clearly you are not so awkward about
receiving compliments that people have decided to stop complimenting you on
your work! Humbly, I will say I personally don't receive a ton of compliments,
but I think I can still offer you some advice. It sounds like you are a bit
bashful about the compliments, maybe because you feel they are undeserved or
too much for the effort or work you put in. I think the first step to getting
around this awkwardness is understanding that people do not compliment you
out of obligation; compliments are almost always voluntary and genuinely
meant. If someone is giving you a compliment, even if it is for something
small to you, it may mean something more to them. Once you internalize this
fact, it may be easier to understand the value you are providing to your
coworkers, and subsequently it may be easier to accept their compliments.
The one thing you should not do in this kind of a work setting is downplay the
work and say something like "oh thanks, it was nothing". Then your coworkers
might start to take your effort and work for granted. I think a short and
simple, "thank you, I'm glad you found it helpful" or similar is the best way
to respectfully acknowledge this type of a compliment.

Thanks for the great question,

Jay

## Sorry Machine

> Hey Jay,
>
> I think I am a serial apologizer. I find myself constantly saying "sorry" or
> apologizing for minor inconveniences, or sometimes apologizing for things
> that are neither inconveniences nor in my control to begin with. Last week it
> rained and I caught myself apologizing to someone for the weather! As if
> I could do anything about that! How can I stop being such a sorry machine?
>
> Thanks,
>
> Apologizer

Apologizer,

It is good to be apologetic in some situations, but I agree with you, it is
certainly possible to apologize too much. This is a bit of an unfortunate
habit you've gotten yourself into. I think this habit, like any other, is a
bit difficult to break. Step one might be slowing down the pace at which you
speak and taking a pause to think before you say something. Maybe you've
avoided the all-too-common "likes," "ums," and other filler words with your
"sorrys" and other apologies. Generally, I think the easiest way to break any
speaking habit is to speak more slowly and carefully consider your words before
you say them.

Good luck,

Jay
