---
layout: single
title: "2022-04-05"
permalink: /advice/2022-04-05
tags:
  - Advice
  - Environment
  - Happiness
  - Success
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on April 5, 2022.

## Becoming an Expert

> Hey Jay,
>
> I spend a lot of time trying to be as environmentally friendly as possible.
> For example I don't just toss things into recycling, I wash them out, and
> sort them by the material type. I maintain a compost pile to allow natural
> material to compost. I even take timed (short) showers every other day to
> conserve water. At what point (if any) am I an environmental expert?
>
> Green

Green,

Sounds like you're quite green indeed! Interesting question, makes me want to
know _why_ you want to be an "expert" at all. Does it matter how other people
perceive your environmental credentials? Are you looking to obtain a job or
pivot to a role that is in the environmental space? If your goal is at all
related to your profession, then I suspect there will be limits to how far
your environmental actions in your personal life can take you. Generally for
professional advancement it is more advantageous to either have educational
credentials in the field, or have on-the-job experience, which you could obtain
at any level within the target industry.

Job-stuff aside, if you simply want to brag to your friends and family about
how environmental you are, then I suppose this question is a bit simpler. The
idea of being an "expert" is a bit vague and hard to pin down, as you've
realized. Especially for something like being "environmentally-friendly," as
our understanding of the environment and climate is steadily evolving. There is
the popular "10,000 hours makes you an expert" line of thinking, which I
believe was proposed by Malcolm Gladwell. So maybe you should estimate the
hours you dedicate to your environmental behaviors, and once they tally up to
about 10,000 hours, you can just start calling yourself an environmental
expert.

Stay clean,

Jay


## Flexin'

> Hey Jay,
>
> To be candid, things have been going pretty well for me recently. After a
> few years of regular exercise, I am feeling pretty fit and trim. I have
> just moved into a new job that is much more rewarding in all aspects, which
> is also making me happier. However I realize that right now, as well as for
> the past few years, things have not been going so well for many people. So,
> in a sense I think I feel a bit guilty about my successes and my happiness.
> How can I enjoy my life without this guilt? I don't try to go around rubbing
> my happiness in other peoples' faces, but sometimes I feel like I am just
> flexing unnecessarily when I talk about how well work is going, or how
> great I feel after a workout. Have any advice for me?
>
> Flexosaurus

Flexosaurus,

Wow you sound like such a nice person! It is truly very considerate of you to
keep other peoples' experiences in your thoughts even as things are going so
well for you. Unless you are walking around boasting about your life, I don't
think you really have anything to worry about, and it doesn't sound like you
do much bragging. If you feel like you are in a good place, and have the
time to spare, it might be fulfilling for you to volunteer in your community.
When you volunteer, you can contribute to bringing happiness into the lives
of people in your community who may not currently be in as privileged a
position as you are. Even if you want to volunteer and help clean up a park, an
activity that does not require direct interaction with others, as you pick up
litter you may think to yourself that some person will visit the park later
and have a better experience because they didn't have to look at trash. So my
advice is simple, just try to be proactive and give back if you are feeling
guilty about your happiness.

-Jay
