---
layout: single
title: "2022-08-24"
permalink: /advice/2022-08-24
tags:
  - Advice
  - Interpersonal Relationships
  - Relationships
  - Well-Being
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on August 24, 2022.

## Thermostat Tussling

> Hey Jay,
>
> I find myself in what is likely a common predicament. I currently live with
> a roommate and all is going well, except we do seem to be locked in a
> perpetual argument over what temperature the thermostat should be set to.
> I prefer a slightly warmer apartment and ideally would like the temperature
> to be around 78 degrees in the summer and 74 in the winter. My roommate on
> the other hand prefers cooler temperatures and wants us to leave the
> thermostat at 72 degrees year round. In an attempt to compromise, I suggested
> we leave it at 74 in the summer and 72 in the winter, but he isn't happy
> with that. What should we do?
>
> Thanks,
>
> Chill Dude

Dude,

I agree that this is probably a common situation in many shared households.
Your proposed compromise sounds reasonable to me, and I am somewhat surprised
that your roommate did not go for it. So I guess given the fact that compromise
doesn't seem to be an option, you really have just 2 remaining choices. You can
elect to keep bickering over a few degrees, or you can give in and set the
thermostat to a cool 72 degrees. Depending on where you live and the outdoor
temperature, this may or may not be an expensive proposition. In the winter,
when the heat is on, maybe you could consider getting a small space heater to
warm yourself up in your room or when you are sitting in a single location for
a while. I can't in good conscience recommend running the space heater in the
summer to warm up, but I guess that'd be an option too. Alternatively, you
could try to compromise again with your roommate and suggest they purchase a
fan to help keep themselves more comfortable. Ultimately you need to decide how
important this argument is, and whether or not it is worth the effort needed to
have these conversations and seek alternative solutions.

Good luck,

Jay