---
layout: single
title: "2022-09-25"
permalink: /advice/2022-09-25
tags:
  - Advice
  - Well-Being
  - Happiness
  - Environment
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on September 25, 2022.

## Screen-less Windows

> Hey Jay,
>
> I've recently moved into a studio apartment and realized that my window does
> not have a screen. As it is a studio, I would like to be able to open the
> window so I can air out the smells of life (as I only have one room), and
> get some fresh air. However, when I opened my window the other day,
> I noticed a few bugs flying around inside later that evening. I feel like
> this is something I should have noticed before signing my lease, but now
> it's too late. What can I do to avoid being stuck in either a stuffy,
> or bug-filled apartment?
>
> Thanks,
>
> Stuffy Studio

Stuffy,

I understand your predicament, I have lived in several studio apartments in my
day, and have lived in a number of different apartments that lacked screens
on windows and doors too. Why don't apartment complexes install screens as a
matter of standard practice? I have no idea. But, fortunately for you,
I do have some suggestions. Obviously the least helpful suggestions are those
you have already proposed; endure stuffiness, or open the windows and be one
with nature. A more useful idea, is for you to look up DIY screen installation
tips online. There are a number of different solutions ranging from screens
you can nail into the frame, to those you affix with tape, to some with magnets.
What is most effective for your situation is going to depend on the type of
window and frame you have, how long you intend to live in this apartment
(and thus how permanent of a solution you want), and how much you are willing
to spend. Since you are in a studio and only mentioned window in the singular,
I suspect you only have one window. Therefore, I believe you can get a pretty
good solution for a reasonable price (less than $50, I'd imagine). So hopefully
that monetary cost and the bit of time it'll take to install will be worth
the fresh air and peace of mind you'll gain.

Good luck,

Jay