---
layout: single
title: "2022-07-25"
permalink: /advice/2022-07-25
tags:
  - Advice
  - Work
  - Relationships
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on July 25, 2022.

## Sigh Guy

> Hey Jay,
>
> One of my colleagues at work is what I've defined as a "sigh guy". He is a
> good worker, but he always seems so uneager to actually do any work. When
> we have a meeting and he is assigned a task, or when someone stops by his
> desk to ask a question, he begins with an audible sigh. Then he gets on with
> the work, or starts to answer the question. How can I tell him this sigh is
> very off-putting? It makes me feel like I am burdening him by asking him to
> do his job? To be fair, I don't know if he is actually burdened, or if this
> is some sort of physical habit he associated with getting his brain in gear
> before performing a task. What should I do?
>
> Thanks,
>
> Congenial Coworker

Congenial,

Interesting situation to be in. It doesn't sound like your coworker is actually
complaining about his role. Like you admit, you don't know if these sighs are
because he is reluctant to work, or just a habit. That being said, I don't
think you can or should ask him to stop. It sounds like he's a good worker,
and you didn't indicate that his answers to questions are rude or
condescending. So if that is the case, let the guy sigh. I think you should
reframe your mindset to be more accommodating of different people's habits and
quirks. Sure, maybe sighing has a bit of a negative connotation in the
workplace, but it doesn't seem like it is indicative of anything particularly
bad in this case. If this guy is a trainee of yours, you could mention this if
you are involved in his professional development. But if you are a colleague,
and not in a mentorship role, I would stay out of it and not mention the
sighing at all.

All the best,

Jay