---
layout: single
title: "2022-02-10"
permalink: /advice/2022-02-10
tags:
  - Advice
  - Unsolicited
  - Graduate School
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on February 10, 2022.

## Unsolicited Advice on Graduate School
Hello folks, this week I am departing from the usual advice column to provide
some (partially) unsolicited advice on graduate school.
I am going to attempt to distill the advice I seem to give on a semi-annual
basis to strangers and acquaintances who are choosing a graduate program.

I'm going to break this into 3 parts:
  1. Should you go to graduate school?
  2. How to identify potential schools, programs, and advisors
  3. What to keep in mind while in school

### 1. Should you go to graduate school?
Ultimately, this is an incredibly personal decision, and many personal factors
may enhance or limit your ability to attend graduate school in the first place.
Independent of those factors, I think it is necessary to identify *why* you
want to go to graduate school. There are many reasons, but you need to be sure
that you find a compelling one. If you cannot find a strong reason to go, you
are likely to struggle.

Some things to keep in mind when making this decision are:
  - What are my current opportunities in the workforce? Is school more
    attractive than any of these options?
  - What is my financial situation? Graduate school is rarely a time during
    which you will be able to accumulate wealth.
  - What opportunities do I wish to have in the future? Can graduate school
    help unlock these, or would I be better off finding a job that provides me
    with relevant work experience for my dream career?
  - How do I feel about doing homework and taking exams? These are largely
    unavoidable when you go to school.
  - Am I willing to spend significant amounts of time reading and writing? No
    matter the field of study, you will likely spend large amounts of time
    both reading and writing as most graduate degrees culminate in a thesis
    or dissertation (and maybe some research publications along the way).

### 2. How to identify potential schools, programs, and advisors
Once you have decided to go to graduate school, the next decision is to
identify specific schools and programs to apply to. Then, depending on which
you are accepted to, you have to decide which to attend. So what makes for a
good fit between a prospective student and a particular research group?

Conventional advice is to search for a program in which you feel accepted. A
place where you feel welcomed by the faculty and other graduate students, as
these people will be your professors and peers for a number of years. This
is certainly great advice! It is typically accompanied by the (obvious)
suggestion that the group you join should be doing research you are
interested in, and would like to conduct. All of this advice is totally sound,
but I think there are additional elements many people forget to consider (at
least I did), which are worth thinking about.

The first has to do with the school itself, what is its reputation? Where is
it? While these factors can be relatively unimportant if the specific program
you are applying to is incredibly well known at the institution, having an
understanding of how the rest of the world and country perceive the institution
is important. If you end up job searching outside of your field, the prestige
of the university will supersede the reputation of your graduate program. The
location of the university may impact where graduates tend to work; some
schools have well established reputations and pipelines to jobs at regional
companies and agencies. If you know what type of career you plan to pursue
after school, then you should see whether the school you are considering has
many alumni in those type of roles at the specific companies or institutions
you would like to one day work at.

The second, has to do with the specific graduate program, and basically
involves the same question. What is its reputation in the field? Most
university departments are quite broad relative to individual lab research
sub-disciplines and specialties. It is important to ensure the program you
attend has some expertise in the sub-field you are interested in.
To get a feel for this, you should browse the department's
website and visit individual faculty pages to see what their research focus is
in. This way you can see if your research interests align broadly with the
research the department is conducting. The prestige of the department or
program itself is important to consider if you are looking to work in the field
after graduating. You might be surprised to learn about the relatively small or
unknown schools across the globe which are highly regarded in your field. To
gauge that type of prestige, I suggest you look up some manuscripts in your
desired field of study, and look through the references to find the labs or
institutions which appear frequently. This is one indicator of how established
an individual department is in the field. Another method of identifying these
programs is to talk to someone you know, preferably someone not in academia,
about the field to try and learn whether or not there are a handful of programs
you should definitely be considering.

The third, and final consideration is arguably the most important, and that is
the selection of a research group and advisor. Now do not forget, this is
definitely a 2-way street, as prospective students search for a good fit with
a lab, advisors search for their newest advisee. As a prospective student, you
should search for a lab which does research that you are interested in, this
is something you cannot really be flexible on. This step should greatly shrink
the number of potential research groups within your broader scientific field.
Standard advice from here is to suggest you get in touch with the PI of the
lab, try to speak with them and see if you are likely to get along, and then
try to speak with some current students to understand what the student
experience in the lab group and in the graduate program is like. Beyond these
steps, which are incredibly important, I think there are a few further
considerations worth making. How long do students typically stay in this
group? Another way of putting that is: how long is the typical degree for a
member of this group? What do students of this research group tend to go do
after they graduate? What skills do students of this group obtain and leave
with? Is there an expectation to publish, if so, how successful are students
in publishing? Is the group highly collaborative with other researchers within
or external to the university? Are students involved in these collaborations?
I think most of these questions can be posed to current graduate students when
you speak with them about joining the group. However, I also think you should
do some of this investigation for yourself, as each individual is going to
present you with a biased version of what they experienced. To do this, you
might examine the research group website (if there is one) to try and see
how long students seem to be there, and what alumni of the group end up doing.
Fortunately for you, senior graduate students are likely searching for jobs
themselves, and I think that it is increasingly common for them to have some
sort of web-presence, where you may be able to see their C.V. or learn more
about their graduate experience. I think this type of investigation on the
part of the prospective student can be very beneficial, as this will help you
understand what experiences or opportunities may be available, and what skills
you will exit the group having. To understand the publishing habits of the
group, I would look up the PI on Google Scholar. This should give you an
indication of how frequent they publish, who common collaborators are,
and roughly what the expectations for publishing are for students of the group.

### 3. What to keep in mind while in school
While in school your primary focus should be on completing the objectives
required to complete your degree requirements and graduate. However, I would
caution against having a myopic focus on these objectives, as the requirements
for obtaining a degree may not directly align with the qualifications
necessary to begin your dream career. The alignment of graduate program
requirements with job requirements will vary based on your field, as well as
your target career. Even so, I think all students should keep these cautionary
words in the back of their minds. Students who wish to become professors in the
future, for example, should not lose track of the facets of professorship
beyond research, such as teaching, and proposal writing. These prospective
professors should do what they can to gain experience teaching, designing
course curricula, and writing proposals as much as they can while graduate
students, to improve the quality of their future academic applications. That is
just one example, for students eyeing careers in industry, it is worth looking
up job advertisements to understand the skills employers are looking for. These
may or may not match the skills you are developing as a student, and some may
be technical skills you can learn in courses, or incorporate into some aspect
of your graduate work. I'd encourage future and current students to take the
time to make this evaluation at least semi-annually if not on a quarterly
basis so that there is time to make small adjustments and find opportunities
while in school that can ultimately increase the quality of your future job
applications.

Finally, remember that your graduate school experience comes down to what you
are able to get out of it. Nobody can care about or prioritize your experience
more than you can. I went to a talk about graduate school once where the
professor giving the lecture reminded everyone that they are just a single
student of many in their supervisor's lab group - and as such, you must be
your own best advocate. It doesn't matter how supportive or well-meaning your
professors and peers are, the onus is on the individual to get what they need
to get done, even if it means pestering people when necessary.

Hopefully this rambling piece of advice is able to help at least 1 person
better navigate their graduate school experience. The standard advice column
will be back next time!
