---
layout: single
title: "2022-06-16"
permalink: /advice/2022-06-16
tags:
  - Advice
  - Personal Finance
  - Relationships
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on June 16, 2022.

## Crushed by Crypto

> Hey Jay,
>
> Well anyone who has read the news lately knows that the entire cryptocurrency
> market has crashed. As someone who was late to the game, but invested a lot
> of money into cryptocurrencies, I am feeling crushed. How can I feel better
> about myself? I've lost a lot of self-confidence and self-esteem as I feel
> I made such poor decisions with my money. What should I do?
>
> Thanks,
>
> Crushed by Crypto

Crushed,

I feel for you and I hope you don't feel too down in the dumps. As you seem to
be aware, you aren't the only one losing out now, the entire crypto sector is
experiencing a selloff and stocks have also been taking a plunge. I understand
that you feel a bit less confident, but you need to view this event in a more
positive light and try to make the most of it. Take it as a learning experience,
and start learning about economics and markets so that the next time you make
risky investments you are better educated. As far as feeling better about
yourself, I think some time will help.

All the best,

Jay


## Sick of the Sell

> Hey Jay,
>
> I have a friend who is a great person, but they have a problem. They're very
> charismatic and always "selling" people on whatever thing they have recently
> picked up. For a stranger, this interaction seems great - they walk away
> having learned about something new to check out. As a friend, I'm tired of
> being given a sales pitch whenever I ask my friend how they are doing or what
> is new in their life. How can tell me friend to stop trying to "sell" me on
> things?
>
> Sick

Sick,

This is an interesting dilemma. It sounds like you may be the less chatty of the
two of you, if your friend enjoys talking with strangers about their latest
find. To your question, I think it is a bit of a tricky spot to be in. I don't
know your specific relationship with this friend, but if you tell them to stop
"selling" you on things, you run the risk that they will just not tell you
about what is new in their life. That situation might be the beginning of the
end for your friendship. It might be better to approach this with a more open
mind, and listen to your friend, but tell them that you have different tastes,
likes, and dislikes. Maybe you can ask them to recommend things to you that
they think are things *you specifically* will like, and trust your friend to
be understanding. If you choose to have this kind of conversation, I would be
careful to put the "problem" on yourself, rather than on your friend. The
issue shouldn't be presented as your friend "selling" you on stuff, but should
be presented as *you* feeling overwhelmed or uncomfortable with trying so many
new things, or doing things outside of your comfort zone. By focusing this
conversation on yourself rather than projecting the issue onto your friend, I
think you'll have a better chance of getting the results you want without
losing your friendship.

Good luck,

Jay
