---
layout: single
title: "2022-06-10"
permalink: /advice/2022-06-10
tags:
  - Advice
  - Food
  - Acting
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
classes: wide
sidebar:
  nav: advice-sidebar
---

Advice given on June 10, 2022.

## Candy Crusher

> Hey Jay,
>
> I have a sweet tooth, and it's becoming a problem. I've always had a love of
> sweets, but things are beginning to spiral out of control. I generally am
> enjoying candy bars or other sweets more frequently than I eat regular food.
> I find myself getting irritated, tired, and sad when I go too long without 
> eating some candy. I need to break this habit. Do you have any suggestions
> for me?
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> Candy Crusher

Crusher,

The first step to solving any behavioral issue (in my opinion) is admitting and
recognizing that the problem exists. You've clearly done this and I applaud 
you for it. Next, you must develop a reasonable and achievable plan of action
to change your behavior. Do you keep all of your candy in a single place? Maybe
you can start there and place some healthy snacks in front of the candy to
encourage you to make healthier decisions. You could try logging your daily
candy intake, and setting goals based on your current consumption. Once you are
able to get some sort of realistic plan put together, I suggest you go ahead
and try to follow it. Be prepared to have backslides and moments of weakness,
that's totally normal! But I'm proud of you for recognizing your bad habit and
trying to fix it. The journey will be difficult, but you'll ultimately
feel healthier and better in the long-run. 

Good luck,

Jay


## Dramady

> Hey Jay,
>
> I've developed this nasty habit of comically over-reacting to things that
> happen to me. For example, if I'm misstep and slightly stumble while walking,
> I will exaggerate the stumble and sometimes roll on the ground. I don't act
> injured, but I turn awkward physical situations into comically over-acted
> performances. While this is funny, and seems fine sometimes, I've started
> doing this **all** the time. I need some help breaking this habit. How can I
> accomplish that? 
>
> Drama King

King,

You sound like a funny guy. It sounds like what was a funny one-off gag has now
become an almost compulsive habit. In that case, I'd agree that things are a 
bit out of control. Do you over-act when you are totally alone and there is 
nobody there to watch your "performace"? In any case, I think you need to be
hyper-aware of your actions for a little while. It might even help for you to
intentionally stumble, or misstep, and then *not* act out. This might help
re-train your brain and muscle-memory to stop over-acting when these situations
crop up more naturally. If you're unable to fix this behavior yourself, you 
could consult some sort of therapist or other healthcare professional to help
you break this habit.

Good luck,

Jay
